#summary HOWTO for joining Aurora development in Eclipse.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Prerequisites =

If you wish to participate in the day-to-day Aurora development, you need an account on [http://path.berkeley.edu PATH server] with group membership _topl_.
You must be affiliated with UC Berkeley or with the TOPL project.



= Before You Start =

1. Download and install Eclipse from http://www.eclipse.org

2. If do not have JRE 1.6 installed already, download and install JDK 6 from http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp



= Loading the Aurora Project into Eclipse =

1. Go to *File --> New --> Project...* - this brings up a wizard window

2. Select *CVS --> Projects from CVS*

3. In the _Checkout Project from CVS Repository_ screen choose *Create new repository location* radio button, and click *Next*

4. Fill in the form in the _Enter Repository Location Information_ screen as shown below, and click *Next*
  * Host name: _path.berkeley.edu_
  * Repository path: _/home/topl/cvsroot/_
  * User/Password: your login and password on [http://path.berkeley.edu PATH server]
  * Connection type: _extssh_
  * Use default port: _selected_
  * Save password: _checked_ (better to save than type it each time)

5. Select *Use existing module* radio button in the _Select Module_ screen, and from the file tree select *aurora --> devel*, then click *Next*

6. Fill in the form in the _Check Out As_ screen as shown below, and click *Next*
  * Checkout as project in the workspace: _selected_
  * Checkout with subfolders: _checked_
  * Project name: _aurora_ (instead of _devel_)

7. Make the selection in the _Select Tag_ screen following the steps below, and click *Finish*
  * Click *Refresh tags* button
  * Select *Branches --> Gang20071210*

Now the Aurora project is loaded into Eclipse.

*Remark:* if for some reason you fail to connect to the repository in step 4, check your firewall settings - sometimes, firewall is the hindrance.



= Final Adjustments =

Once the project is checked out, before running it you need to add necessary jars into your _Classpath_ and set up the appropriate compiler.
To do that, follow the steps below.

1. Go to *Project --> Properties* in the menu bar of Eclipse - this brings up the _Properties for aurora_ window 

2. Go to *Java Build Path* in a tree, then select *Libraries* tab and click *Add External JARs...* button

3. Add all jars from `libGUI` subdirectory except `gnujaxp.jar`; from `libdbDerby` add `derby.jar` and `derbytools.jar`; and from `libGIS` add all jars except `commons-collections-3.1.jar`

4. In the same widow, select *Java Compiler* and make sure that the compiler compliance level is 6.0

5. Click *OK*

6. Go to *Window --> Preferences* in the menu bar of Eclipse - this brings up the _Preferences_ window

7. Go to *Java --> Installed JREs* and select *JRE 1.6* (If *JRE 1.6* is not in the list, add the one you have previously installed)

8. Click *OK*

9. Go to *Run --> Run*, and start the Java application with the main class `aurora.hwc.gui.MainPane` - this starts the Simulator

10. To start the Configurator select the `aurora.hwc.config.MainPane` class

11. To see the icons correctly, copy (do not move, just copy) the `icons` subdirectory into `bin` subdirectory

At this point you are ready to start working on the code.